mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
the following set of equations were put
online by Nicolas trata the Education
Minister in Argentina
like any good math problem this problem
sparked a lot of positive discussion
about how to get the correct answer I
thought I would present a video showing
two different interpretations to the
correct answer pause the video if you'd
like to give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
[Music]
there's one way to interpret the problem
using elementary mathematics and that's
the official solution but many people
used advanced mathematics and that's the
interpretation I prefer so I'll go
through both approaches to get started
we'll analyze each equation in turn the
first equation says three calculators
are equal to 30 which means one
calculator is equal to ten
second equation we'll have ten plus two
books will be equal to eighteen this
means that two of these books will be
equal to eight or one set of books is
equal to four so far there's no
disagreement we get to the third
equation we now substitute that four
minus two of these laptops is equal to
two this means four minus two is equal
to two laptops or two is equal to two
laptops here's where the interpretation
comes into play under an elementary
mathematics interpretation these two
laptops represent two separate laptops
you want to add the value of each one
therefore two laptops is equal to two
which means one laptop is equal to one
we then evaluate the final expression we
substitute in the values of one four and
ten then we remember to multiply four
and ten first by the order of operations
so we get one plus 40 and then our final
answer is equal to 41 this is the
official answer however the way the
equation was written left open to
interpretation for some advanced
mathematics see this equation looks like
two laptops but it actually resembles X
to the power of X how would you solve
the problem in this interpretation it's
a little bit more tricky we have to use
the Lambert W function to explain this
it's the inverse of X times e to the
power of X so x times e to the power of
X is equal to some value Z then X is
equal to W of Z so how does that help us
solve the problem well first rewrite
this equation for any value X X is equal
to e to the power of the natural log of
X we'll rewrite this equation then we
will take the natural log of both sides
this simplifies to the following
equation we then write U for the natural
log of X and the equation becomes u
times e to the power of U is equal to
the natural log of two we can therefore
use a Lambert W function on this
equation we can solve that U is equal to
W of the natural log of two and that
equal to the natural log of X so we take
e to the power of that on both sides and
we can solve that X is equal to e to the
power of W of the natural log of two
evaluating the product log we get this
as approximately one point five six
therefore this becomes a value of one
laptop as before we substitute in the
values to the final expression we
multiply four and ten together and we
get an approximate answer of 41 point
five six either interpretation is
correct I prefer the advanced
mathematics interpretation it adds a
little bit more spice and it helps a lot
more people engage in higher level
mathematics thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]